[MUSIC PLAYING]
JEREMY: Katie, thank you
for inviting me to Facebook
to meet you and--
KATIE: You're welcome.
JEREMY: --to see
the sights of London.
It's great being here.
I want you to tell
me a little bit,
please, about how you got
into Haskell programming,
where you found out about it,
and why you like it so much.
KATIE: OK.
So I learned about Haskell from
a professor at my university.
Like most universities,
we have that one professor
who's really crazy about it.
JEREMY: Oh, right.
Good.
KATIE: But unlike most people,
I didn't learn about it
in official classes.
The classes that
included Haskell
were unfortunately cut
from the curriculum.
JEREMY: Oh, how sad.
KATIE: And this
professor-- very, very sad.
This professor
was so passionate,
he offered to teach
interested students
in the library in his own time.
So we had little secret
sessions in the library
to learn about functional
programming and also
logic programming.
So he taught about a bit
of Scheme, a bit of Prolog,
and also some
Haskell, and that's
how I was first exposed to it.
JEREMY: Wow, the
secret functional society.
That's good, isn't it?
Haskell is used quite
extensively at Facebook,
isn't it?
Can you tell us a
little bit about how
you use Haskell in your
day-to-day software
development?
KATIE: Yes.
I work on a system called
Sigma, which is basically
a rules engine for catching
bad things on the site, things
like spam, for example.
And it's a C++ Haskell hybrid,
but it runs rules that are
written in Haskell in EDSL,
embedded domain-specific
language, called Haxl, which is
open source so people can check
that out.
JEREMY: How
do you spell Haxl?
Sorry.
KATIE: It's H-A-X-L.
JEREMY: OK.
We'll google it.
KATIE: Haxl.
JEREMY: Cool.
KATIE: And this system runs more
than a million queries a second
to fight badness on the site.
So Haskell is being used in
the real world in production
to help make Facebook
a nicer place.
JEREMY: And there
are lots of people
using Haskell at Facebook.
KATIE: Yeah, not just me.
We have dozens of
people here who
are writing these rules
in Haskell and also people
that are working on this
project, of course, as well.
JEREMY: Can you
tell us a little bit
about the Commercial Users
of Functional Programming
Conference?
You're involved
with that, I think,
and that's something
that showcases
functional programming in what
you might call the real world,
I suppose.
KATIE: Yes.
And it's been going for
quite a number of years now,
I think over a decade.
So this is run as part of
ICFP, the International
Conference on
Functional Programming,
and I've been co-chairing
it for this year
and the previous year.
And we've got some
great talks coming up,
so if anyone wants
to head to Japan.
JEREMY: A nice holiday.
A nice functional
holiday in Japan.
Very good.
OK.
KATIE: But it's at
the stage now where
it's no longer a niche thing.
I think when CUFP started it was
people just finding camaraderie
in other people having
the frustrating experience
of trying to get FP
into their workplace
and trying to make it work
and convince their employers.
I think we're well
past that now.
JEREMY: So kind of the
battle is almost half won,
you're saying already.
KATIE: Well, certainly there
are lots of big companies
like Facebook that people
can point to to say, well,
why can't we use
it at my company?
Facebook's using it.
And there are other big names.
So a lot of that
battle is won now.
And the event has changed
focus as a result of that.
JEREMY: On
our course, Katie,
we're learning about monads.
We've looked at Maybe
and the IO monad so far.
I'd like you to try and convince
that monads aren't scary.
KATIE: Oh, OK.
So why do people even think
monads are scary, right?
Maybe, firstly,
because that have
an unfamiliar name-- monad.
People probably haven't
heard that word before, sure.
And also because there's
this bit of a cottage
industry of writing monad
tutorials on the internet,
and people think, oh, if it
needs all these tutorials,
it must be hard.
Not true, not true at all.
All monads are are
basically a pattern.
It's the simplest way of
explaining what it is.
JEREMY: OK.
KATIE: Monads are useful,
because we believe
in the DRY principle as
good programmers-- Don't
Repeat Yourself.
And monads are simply a way
of not repeating yourself.
It happens to be that there
are many quite disparate things
actually, as disparate as Maybe
and IO and Lists and a number
of other things--
JEREMY: But we'll
come to that next week.
KATIE: --yes, yes-- that
fit a particular pattern.
And that means that
you can write code once
for all the things
that fit that pattern
and not repeat yourself.
And that's basically
it in a nutshell.
And monad, of course, is only
one of these abstractions
that we have in Haskell.
There are many others too.
JEREMY: OK.
KATIE: And they're useful.
And that's it.
That's really all
there is to it.
JEREMY: I feel
slightly reassured then.
Thank you.
OK.
KATIE: Glad I could
be of service.
JEREMY: We're going to
go into a lot more detail
next week.
But you've got a great
video about monads
as superheroes online.
Can you ever give us a
two-minute pitch of that,
and we'll post a YouTube
link on our website below.
KATIE: OK, sure.
First, I should clarify when
I say monads are superheroes,
I'm not trying to
add another analogy--
JEREMY: Oh, right.
KATIE: --to all the analogies
you already see out there
about monads, because
I believe it's better
to go from the concrete
and see lots of examples
and then build up your
own intuition of what
the abstraction means.
So you're not going to know
what monads are just by hearing
that they're like superheroes.
But in the talk, I basically
just talk about what
the key aspects of a monad are.
So monads are basically--
there's a type class.
I understand you've
already taught that.
JEREMY: Yes.
KATIE: So you can say this.
KATIE: A type class that has
two-- there's another way
to define it with
three-- but two
or three key functions on it.
And it needs to
follow some laws,
the way that you implement this.
That's really the crux of it.
JEREMY: OK.
More next week.
KATIE: Yes, sure.
I'm sure you'll go
into all the details.
JEREMY: We will,
yes, excruciatingly.
Thank you.
Good.
If someone on our course
came along and said,
right, will
functional programming
make me more employable?
What would you say?
KATIE: This is a good question.
I think that a lot of
employers out there
are starting to twig to the fact
that people who are interested
enough in programming to
learn something that's not
the mainstream paradigm
like functional programming
tend to be good-quality
programmers.
So I think, in general,
it serves you well
to have those skills as
part of your toolset.
There aren't as many purely
functional programming jobs
out there as there are
other jobs, for sure,
but they do exist.
And it seems that their
numbers are growing.
So, yeah, I think
it's definitely
a benefit to have those skills.
Most importantly,
though, I think
it's great to learn
functional programming just
to learn how to think in a
different way about problems.
JEREMY: Yeah.
Good.
We've been trying to
emphasize that on our course.
Thinking functionally
is a good skill to have,
even if you don't use
functional languages.
Katie, tell us about the
big gong that's next to you.
What's this for?
KATIE: So this is
a tradition here,
that when you ship
something, you
get to come and hit the gong
so the whole office can hear
that something's been shipped.
JEREMY: It's quite loud.
KATIE: It is.
Do you want me to demonstrate?
JEREMY: Well, why
don't we ship our interview,
and you can whack the gong to
tell everyone we've done it.
KATIE: All right.
I don't know how I'm going to
explain this one, but sure.